Resource Hierarchy

    What is a resource ?
        This includes the "service level resources" that you use to process your workload, which includes compute instance VMs,
        cloud storage bucket. Another inclusion is the account level resources, the organization, the folders and projects


    Resource Hierarchy is the configuration and access granting to the various resources both at the service level and
    account level resources.


Resource Hierarchy Structure

    They are organized hierarchically using parent-child relationship. This is designed to map organizational structure
    to GCP, in order to better manage permission and access control. IAM controls the permission policies.


    Domain > Organization > Folders > Projects


Note:
    Projects use service level resources, while others is account level resource

    There is always permission and policy inheritance.


Billing Account

This is a cloud level resources, which defines who pays for a given set of Google Cloud Resources. Tracks all costs incurred
by GCP Cloud Usage. It is always linked to a payment profile.

It can be linked to one or more projects


Types of payment profile
- Individual
- Business

Creating a billing Account

    IAM > Roles  # search for billing to see if you can see the billing permission

    Billing > Account management > Manage billing accounts # you can create billing account

    To close billing account click on the billing account > close the billing account



Cost Management and Budgets Alerts

- Committed Use Discounts
    This is when you commit to using a minimum level of resources for a specified term # it is good especially when you can predict the workload

    It can be 1 or 3 years commitment

    Types of Commitments

        - Spend based
            You commit to spend a minimum amount for a service in a particular region

            25% for a year and 52% for 3 years

            Available for:
                Cloud SQL database instance

                Google Cloud VMWare Engine

        - Resource based
            You commit to spend a minimum amount for compute engine resources in a particular region

            They are ideal for predictable workload on VMs

            It can be applied across projects

            57% discount for most resources

            70% for memory optimized machine types

        - Sustained Use Discount

            Automatic discounts for running compute engine resources a significant portion of the billing month

            Applies to most compute engines and includes VMs created by GKE


GCP pricing calculator

    GCP pricing calculator can help you know an estimated amount you likely going to
    spend


Cloud Billing Budgets
    Enables you to track your actual GCP spend against your planned spend

    Budget alert threshold rules are used to trigger email notifications to help stay  informed about your spendings.


    The budget can be applied to a billing account or to a specific product.


    Cloud Pub/Sub can help you automatic notification and disable a service programmatically


Demo for committed Use discount

    Compute engine > committed use discount


Reservation is to make sure the VM is always available for you.

For budget and alert, go to the
    billing > budgets and alerts > create budget


You can also enable pub/sub for programmatic cloud monitoring




Exporting Billing Data

    Billing export enables granular billing data (such as usage, cost details and pricing data) to be
    exported automatically to BigQuery for detailed analysis.

    billing > billing export # make sure you create a dataset

    APIs > Enable big query transfer api





Cloud APIs

    Go to APIs and enable the api you need.


Admin User

    You can add an admin user.

    Billing Account > Permissions > Assign the roles you want it to have


Cloud SDK
    gcloud is the sdk for GCP

    google sdk for linux, so you can use it and interact with it.

