Innovating with Data and Google Cloud

I. The Value of Data

i. The role of data in digital transformation

Data is any information that is useful to an organization, business now have
access to a glut of new data due to digital transformation, such as the amount of time
a customer spend on an app, the reaction of a customer to a new product etc

This data can be used to unlock business value, GCP allows you to bring data that are in
silos together to make real time decision.

Businesses can process terabytes of data in real-time.
Businesses can query their data and retrieve results instantly.


ii. Leveraging data in Organization


- Identify and map your data
    This is a chart of all the data use in all part of the business.
    - user data # data of customers
    - corporate data # data of workers
    - industry data # data of the sector at large

Intersection between these data sets can give you insights, to create valuable insights



iii. Understanding data types

We have two main types

- Structured
    These are organized data, example customer names, records, and it can be easily stored
    and managed in databases

- Unstructured
    These are not organized data, example are images, audio files, videos, they can be stored as
    objects. It can be also stored as blobs


Although it is hard to analysis unstructured data, but digital transformation can help with this.



iv. Important data consideration

There are ethics about getting and analysing data. There should be security compliance that
must be followed. Like the data that is actually needed to train the model.




II Data Consolidation and Analytics



i. Migrating data to the cloud

Many organization still have their data stored on prem, how data is stored is critical.
When you store data on prem, you are responsible for the infrastructure and scaling which
cloud be time and resources consuming.

Cloud allows you to store data in an elastic way, it is faster to analyze in real time and predict future.



ii.  Cloud Databases

They are many solution to storing data, one of them is database.
A database is an organized collection of data, generally stored in tables and accessed
electronically from a computer system.


Data Integrity
    This is the accuracy and consistency of data stored.

Scalability
    This is when it can easily be scale


GCP database

Cloud SQL
    This is a relational database

        Usage
        - for websites


Cloud Spanner
    This data is copy for different regions, it creates replicas all over the regions.



iii. Cloud data warehouses

    Data warehouses collects data from multiple places, including databases.

    They are designed to analyze this data, data warehouses are what are used.


GCP data warehouse

Big Query
    - They are serverless and scalable for analyzing

Pub/Sub a real time ingestion of data and Dataflow a large scale processing of data
can be used together to process unstructured or semi structured data, then sent to big Query
for analysis.




iv. Cloud Data Lakes

It is a data repository designed to store, process and secure large amount of data,
structured, semi structured and unstructured, they do not mind the format. They contain
different products. They tend to hold 'back up' data

Correct

 Cloud storage benefit

 - any amount of data can be stored
 - low latency
 - accessible from anywhere in the world




v. Business Intelligence Solution

This serves the data analytics, Looker is used by GCP to do this. This allows anyone
to access the data and innovate. It share interactive dashboard insight.


III. Innovation with Machine Learning

i. What is ML

Most data are always backward looking data to identify trends, however, to use data for values and forecast, using
ML.

AI is a broad field or term that describe any kind of machine capable of a task that normally requires human intelligence
such as visual perception, speech recognition, decision-making, or translation between languages.


ML refers to computer that can "learn" from data and make predictions or decision without being explicitly programmed to do so.
This is done using algorithms or models to analyze data. These algorithms use historical data as input to predict new output values.


ii. Data Quality

The accuracy of ML is dependent on the quality of data.

Qualities of good data

- coverage
    It covers the entire domain and scope, all possible scenario

- clean
    It must be clean, it must not include errors that can affect the decision format

- complete
    This refers to sufficient data, all the data needed to work without human intervention.



iii. ML and AI with GCP

Vertex AI is the tool.

If you do not have your training data, you would need to use google pre-trained API,
else you will use will need to use Vertex AutoML or Custom depending on whether you using
your code or not.


iv. Real world uses of ML

- In searching  # google search
- Automating processes
- Understanding Unstructured data
- Personalized experience


