Infrastructure and Application Modernization


I. Modernizing IT infrastructure with GCP

i. Infrastructure modernization

Owning infrastructure for a company is more of stressful, since they have to provide support
and difficult to scale.

Using public clouds, and it has allowed innovation, saved cost and other things.


ii. Compute options in cloud

Public cloud services can provide VMs so to utilize their hardware optimally.
Now containers made it better, however they are more efficient since they contain exactly
what the app needs.
Serveless computing means the bussiness provide the code, and the public cloud provides the
what is needed for the code to run.

Private Cloud, Hybrid Cloud or Multi Cloud can used.



iii. GCP compute solutions

Virtual Machines

- Compute Engine
    This allows you to create VMs that are scalable, they boot quickly and have
    a persistent disk storage

    usage:
        If complete control of the over the VM
        Software that cant be easily container

- VMware Engine
    This a type of software you can run a VM, it allows you run the VM ware platform
    efficiently.
    Google takes care of the networking and others stuffs


- Bare Metal
    Allows you to migrate work loads that needs licensing or might be difficult to move to
    the other types





Containers

    - Google Kubernetes Engine
        This is the kubernetes for google, which allows spins up




Serverless

    - App engine
        This is a  platform as a service, allows you to deploy without think of the infrastructural cost


    - Cloud Run
        This allows developer build application in favorite langauge and dependencies

    - Cloud Function
        This allows you to run codes in agile way, that scales easily.






II. Modernizing Applications with Google Cloud

i. Cloud change patterns

- They can move application first then change them

- You can decide to migrate them bit by bit

- Greenfield strategy means they build a new product entirely

- Brownfield strategy means building a new one that will replace the old one

- Moving applications without changes



ii. Challenges in application development

They are choices to be made when developing an application. CICD helps
in developing applications, you test incrementally.

GKE:
    This uses k8 and containers, and it is done in a mirco service way. It
    is easily scalable and helps in disaster recovery.


App Engine:
    It uses serverless computing, hardware and networking, it scales the app automatically
    It can easily run multiple version of your app for testing.






III. The value of API

i. Legacy System Challenges

These types of these systems do not give the best and scalability of the
like cloud systems.

They are not design to serve real time data.



ii. What are APIs and Modernizing legacy system

APIs enable information to follow into systems. They allow secured integration of legacy
system can leverage this for modernization.
This allows businesses to create new revenue streams.


iii. Apigee

Apigee is a leading API management platform acquired by Google.
It enables organizations to design, secure, deploy, and monitor
APIs efficiently. With features like API design tools, robust security
mechanisms, deployment flexibility, analytics, and developer
collaboration support, Apigee streamlines the process of creating,
managing, and optimizing APIs. It facilitates seamless integration
with backend systems, ensuring secure and scalable communication
between applications. As part of Google Cloud Platform,
Apigee is a key tool for businesses seeking effective API
management solutions in the modern digital landscape.



