Digital Transformation with Google Cloud

I. Why cloud technology is transforming business


i. Innovation, Paradigm shifts, and digital transformation

    Innovation throughout history does not come in a linear way, it comes periodically,
    and this is always inspired by a breakthrough technology.

    There is the age of :

        1. the printing press
        2. the steam engine
        3. the electricity
        4. the transportation
        5. the first computers
        6. now the cloud


    Each of the these waves triggered thousands of innovations, changing people's life and work

    For example, the printing press gave everyone access to books, encyclopedias and even playing cards.

    It is a paradigm shift which is a fundamental and irreversible change in the way human work and
    engage with the world.

    Cloud technology is another paradigm shift, which is changing the way human work and live.
    It is in form of digital transformation, which is when an organization uses new digital technologies,
    such as public, private, and hybrid cloud platform to create or modify businesses processes, culture
    and customer experiences, in order to meet the  needs of changing business and market dynamics.






ii. What is the cloud

    It is a "metaphor" for networks of data centers which store and compute information that is available
    through the internet. It instead of describing a collection of software, network and complex computer systems, it
    can be combined to one world "CLOUD".

    Types of Clouds

    1. On premises:
        This is when an organization hosts it hardware and software application on site, located and
        operated within an organization data center to serve it specific purpose. They do not need to connect with it
        via the internet

        Benefits

        - It gives owner full control of their hardware and software
        - They do not need to keep paying to access their infrastructure

        Drawbacks

        - Since they need to buy physical servers, the procurement process can that months
        - They need the personnel that can manage them
        - It is very difficult to scale




    2. Private Cloud:
        This is when the infrastructure is dedicated  specifically for the use of an
        organization instead of. It is also known as single tenant or corporate cloud, it would
        perform same maintenance like on premise, or at a 3rd party location. It is scalable.
        It is typically connected through the internet!



    3. Public Cloud:
        This is when on demand infrastructure are managed by a cloud provider such as google cloud, it is
        also known as multi tenant cloud. But the information of each organization is hidden from each other.


        Services offered

        IAAS:
            It offers compute and storage services

        PAAS:
            It offers environment that can be used to develop and build cloud apps

        SAAS:
            It offers the software itself as a payable service.


    4. Hybrid Cloud:
        This is when they use some infrastructure on prem and the other on cloud

    5. Multi Cloud:
        This is when an organization uses different public cloud provider



iii. Benefits of Cloud Computing

    1. It is scalable
    2. It is flexible since it can be access
    3. It is agile
    4. Higher return on investment
    5. Competitive advantage
    6. Promotes innovations
    7. Security is high
    8. It saves cost

iv. Dangers of not adopting new technology

    If companies do not focus on why they exist, and focus only on how they operate, they risk running into collapsing.
    They wont evolve as the need of people do.



v. Cloud Computing Era

    This is where organizations are not just making infrastructure and compute making
    decisions but truly focusing on transforming.

vi. Challenges that lead to a digital transformation

    1. Data want real time unifed data for decision
    2. Best infrastructure
    3. Best hybrid workplace
    4. Security
    5. Sustainable future (green energy)



vii. Google Transformation cloud

    1. Data:
        Data is the key to unlock value from AI, so GCP can help unify data, data cloud does it

    2. Open Infrastructure
        Modernizing infrastructure that can help with the computing power.

    3. Collaboration:
        Work space is a collaboration

    4. Trust
        The security is trusted

    5. Sustainable technology
        Green energy








II. Fundamental Cloud Concepts


i. Total cost of ownership

    This checks the cost of running software on cloud vs running it on prem.


ii. CapEX vs OpEx

    Moving to cloud reduces capex and increases opex, capex is the hardware and maintenance cost.
    Opex is the cost of operating, i.e cloud sub


iii. Private Hybrid and Multi cloud

    Organizations today leverage various cloud options, including private, hybrid, and multicloud solutions.
    Private cloud involves virtualized servers in dedicated environments, offering customization and on-premises control.
    Hybrid cloud combines private and public cloud environments, fostering flexibility and modernization at a preferred pace.
    Multicloud integrates two or more public cloud providers, allowing access to diverse strengths. These approaches enhance
    technological innovation, facilitate modernization, optimize ROI, offer tool flexibility, improve reliability,
    ensure regulatory compliance, accommodate on-premises needs, and support remote edge locations for distributed applications.
    Such strategies empower organizations to meet evolving business demands efficiently and effectively.


iv. How a network supports digital transformation

    Connectivity is an important concept in cloud, google that cable that connects their data centers all over the world.

    Bandwidth is the amount of data a network can transfer, Mbps. While latency is the amount of time it takes to travel.

    There are regions which contains zones.



III. Cloud Computing Models and Shared Responsibility

i. IaaS
    It provides infrastructure that are scalable such as compute, databases, networking, and storage. Cloud provider
    lease these resources to them so organization can focus on Opex instead of Capex. It takes away the hardware procurement
    of these resources.

    - It is scalable
    - It saves time
    - It is reliable

    If your workload is on unpredictable, the IAAS is useful


    For highly flexible, scalable service, while maintaining control of the infrastructure


ii. PAAS

    This provides a framework that helps deployment of code, without a need to worry about the
    infrastructure needed.

    - It is  scalable
    - It saves time because no need to set up infrastructure
    - It abstracts management
    - It is flexible

    For fast test and deployment
    Unique application


    This offers a cost-effective way to build applications




iii. SaaS

    This gives you the all software, it has full abstraction

    - It low maintenance
    - It is cost-effective
    - Predictable cost
    - It is ready available

    It is suitable for project that just needs focus
    If you want to take advantage of established application

    Features that are ready to use, without controlling it



iv. Shared responsible model


    Infrastructure is cloud and data is organization. See IMG-1








