I)  Cloud Concepts


- What is cloud computing ?

The practice of using a network of remote servers hosted on the internet to
manage, and process data, rather than local server or a personal computer.


- The Evolution of cloud hosting

1. Dedicated Server
This is when one physical machine is dedicated to a single business

i.e runs a single website

Characteristics

* Very expensive
* High Maintenance
* High Security (Theoretically)


2. Virtual Private Server

This is one physical machine dedicated to multiple businesses via virtualization
(VMs)

i.e runs multiple websites


3. Shared Hosting

One physical machine, shared by hundred of businesses, it relies on most tenants


4. Cloud Hosting

Multiple physical machines that acts as one system, each machine are abstracted
into multiple cloud services.



- The benefits of cloud computing

Cost-effective:
    You pay as you go, you only pay for what you use

Global:
    It allows you go global within minutes

Security:
    The cloud provider take care of the security

Reliable:
    Data Backup and disaster recovery

Scalable:
    It is scalable

Elastic:
    It is automated to scale, it is elastic

Current:
    It is always current, and patched with the best.



- Common Cloud Services

1. Compute:
    Virtual computer that can run applications, program and code

2. Storage:
    Virtual hard-drives that can store files

3. Networking:
    Imagine having a virtual network being able to define internet connections

4. Database:
    Virtual database for storing reporting data or a database for general purpose
    web applications



- Types of cloud computing

i. SaaS
    A product that is run and managed by the service provider


ii. PaaS
    Focus on the deployment and management of your app, you dont need to provision
    any infrastructure.


iii. IaaS
    This is when you provision your infrastructure.



- Shared responsibility model

This is what the customer and what the cloud provider is responsible for.
Check IMG-1


- Cloud Computing Deployment Models

Public Cloud

Public Cloud

Private Cloud

Hybrid Cloud

Multi Cloud




- TCO and CAPEX vs OPEX

Total Cost of ownership is the Capex and Opex involved, typically when you move to
the cloud more emphasis shift away from capex to opex, since the cloud would handle a
lot of underlying maintenance.




- Cloud Architecture Terminologies

i. Availability
    This is the make sure a service remain available
    i.e using load balancer to distribute load to servers in different zones


ii. Scalability
    This is the ability to scale up and scale down memory and computing power

    You can scale
        - vertically: add more memory and compute power to a single machine
        - horizontally: adding more machines to the one that is running
    Scale out is to add more server while scale in is to remove servers

iii. Elasticity
    This is the ability to scale horizontally automatically

iv. Fault Tolerance
    This is when there is no single point to failure.
    i.e Like database replication

iv. Disaster Recovery
    How to recover from a data loss.


- Evolution of Computing
Single Tenancy (bare metal)

VMs

Containers

Functions (serverless computing)




II) Global Infrastructure

This refers to the global presence of datacenters, networking and cloud resources

Regions have zones in them

Edge networking is the practice of having compute and data storage resources as
closest to the end users, in other to reduce latency.


Cloud interconnect provides direct physical connections between your on-prem network
and Google's network. It allows you to transfer data which is cost-effective than
transferring data over public internet.

Co-location is a data center where resources are available for rent.


III) Digital Transformation

- Infrastructure modernization

Replacing legacy hardware and software systems with cloud solutions.
Allows organization to adopt hybrid architectures and have more infrastructure
mobility choosing the mix of best cloud service provider offerings for organization
use-case.

Anthos is the manage compute from both on-prem and public cloud in a single
unified interface.



- Business applications platform portfolio

The backbone of cloud service providers are built on-top of robust, well documented
APIs standardize across all cloud services. Organizations can focus on the configuration and
interconnections of various systems instead of having to build their own systems.


Cloud SDK, Cloud API, Cloud CLI and Google Cloud Documentation are all examples


- Application Modernization

Building web-applications on-top of cloud services allows organizations to
globally deliver and rapidly iterate faster than ever before. CSPs offer
automated deployment pipelines, AI powered code-reviews, easy staging and testing
of new features. The ability to test in-production and rollback changes.
Apps are more durable abd can remain available even when facing catastrophic
regional failure.

App Engine is an example


III) Google Cloud Tools

-Google Cloud Console

This is a web-based, unified console that provides an alternative to command
line tools. Build, manage and monitor everything from simple wbe apps to complex
cloud deployments.

-Cloud SDK

You can use cloud SDK( software development kit) to programmatic create, modify , delete and
interact with Google Cloud resources.

It is available in python and different other language


-Cloud CLI

A command line interface to interact with GCP


-Cloud Shell

This is an online shell for you to use cli

- Projects and Folders

A project in google cloud is a logical grouping of resources, a cloud resource
must belong to a project.

Folders allow you to logically group multiple projects that share common IAM permissions

Folders are commonly used to isolate projects for different departments.


IV) Google Cloud Adoption Framework
This deals with how cloud should be used




IV) Core Services

- Compute

Compute Engine:
    Create and deploy scalable, high performance VMs

Bare Metal Solution:
    Providing hardware to specialized workloads with low latency on Google Cloud

App Engine:
    Build and deploy apps on a fully managed, highly scalable platform without having
    to manage the underlying infrastructure.

Cloud GPUs:
    Add GPUs to your workloads for ML, scientific computing, and 3D visualization


Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
    Reliably, efficiently and securely deploy and scale containerized applications on
    kubernetes

Sole tenant node

    Helps meet compliance and licensing. There might be need to just have a single
    node.

